Technologies you need to know
that to get a job, right?
So these are technologies
as an entry level developer
that are going to put you above the other
devs or at least help pick the interest
when they see this on your resumes and see
this on your content that you're making.
It's gonna help you get the attention
of people that are looking to hire you.
So you need a strong
understanding of the Big Three.
Everybody that says they know HTML,
CSS and
JavaScript, knowing how to write it and
knowing the why behind writing it,
and how to write it, while you're
writing it, is a big difference.
When it comes to HTML, you need to
understand Semantic Web and SEO.
You need to understand
about HTML validators.
You need to understand why it's so
important to write a Semantic HTML,
because doing Semantic HTML helps web
crawlers know which information is
most important, which helps websites SEO,
which also helps with accessibility.
Which makes it easier for
the web users, you'd be amazed how
many people write really bad HTML,
they dev all the things, then they
force it to do their bidding with CSS.
And then especially in past two years, the
website gets hit with a huge lawsuit for
web accessibility, because
everything was done wrong or weird.
You need to understand that and
be able to have those that use cases,
the why you do it a certain way.
CSS, knowing CSS,
just to change colors is great.
You also need to learn how to do
animation, a little bit of animation.
Not a lot like text transform, style
transformations, things of that nature.
You'll have a deep dive on it for
you to be able to understand it as well
as make sure you understand grid and
flex, front end masters has
several great courses on that.
And understanding the why, for
instance, I was a big fan of grid
when it came to larger sites.
But that was when I had a more monolithic
thought process of building websites.
Once it came to more modular,
I focus on more smaller components
of building websites,
that's when I started making my
products more focused on flex because it
gave me more control of what I was doing.
Now if I'm using something that has
a lot of data that has to manipulate and
move around as we're going from
desktop to mobile or mobile desktop,
as we're like switching between those
devices, then yes, I will use grid,
if you had a table with
a lot of data points, and
rows, and all that stuff, right?
That's when I will use grid.
But for everything else, I use flex.
I also recently learned that
grid is slower than flex,
which helped influence me
to make more decisions,
to say if I can try using flex, I will.
So these are the type of conversations and
ideals that you need,
when you're building things, and
when you're interviewing, so that way you
can have these type of conversations,
so you can lead with influence.
So they're like,
you've played with it enough,
you work with it enough to
understand the gotchas,
the sacrifices that you have
to make based upon technology.
JavaScript, same way,
you need to understand that most
especially as an entry level dev,
most of the websites that you're going to
be on that you're gonna be working on.
It's gonna have some older writing
styles with them and be using jQuery.
So you need to learn a not
just JavaScript, but
a little bit of how to transform
jQuery into JavaScript.
So there's a great website.
I should put it in here.
I'll put in my notes for later.
It's called you You don't need jQuery and
they actually walk through how
to use a DOM selector in lieu of jQuery
to like do things I highly recommend it.
It was a fun site, one of my friends,
Adam Dylan, he showed it to me.
He's a great example if you're on
Twitter of a person to follow who's
strong in the front end game,
comes from a graphic design background and
learn front end on his own,
just because he loves building a product.
So that's a great tool.
>> How rock solid do you
have to be on the HTML,
the CSS, and then we'll leave
JavaScript to another question?
But do you need to be able to
whip up a page without even thinking or
you just got to know.
Obviously, everybody can write it,
but can you if you're given a design,
can you pound that design out
in 20 minutes without even
thinking just by looking at it?
>> I have yet to see a 20-minute
interview challenge with HTML CSS.
I've seen like there's some
competitions that do that.
But this is a job, this is a profession so
you have to be pretty solid on
the fundamentals as well be able to share.
This is where how I find the fundamentals,
being able to show that
you're a great communicator.
Well, if you don't know something or
saying how you would find it,
that takes you make suggest
as well when it comes to
looking for being solid and
these problems or any issues.
So you have to be able to
you have to be solid but
you also have to be able to
communicate if what you don't know.
And be open about and say how you would
find out I just say, I don't know, and
I'll find out like,
okay, I don't know this.
So my first thing I would
do is go to the MDN,
I would search this on the Mozilla MDN and
see this now if it's still like,
I'm still having an issue with growing it.
What I would do is I would go to CSS
tricks and read a blog post about it cuz I
know CSS tricks probably has something
written on it, or I would go the front end
masters and try to do a video on it, try
to see if there's any coursework on it and
go through that before I
attempt to tackle this again.
Cuz you get a deeper dive, right.
So that's what you would do,
you would talk through them and
you might find your
solution based upon that.
They ask you about, how do you center?
How do you center a div or
center square without using float, right?
So you're like, okay,
I know I can do display flex.
I know I can do justify content, but
I now remember is the justify
content space in between.
They're like no,
just listen to the sentence go there.
All right, okay, it's just by
content center, right and yeah,
that's exactly right.
Being able to show how you think is going
to help you not answer like not only
answer questions but
to help build trust in him.
Well, you know what you
are passionate about this.
You think about your code you're
communicating just in the end coding,
contrary to popular belief is social.
And you have to be able to talk through
the ideas and the issues that you're
having with people as well as
the problems that you're trying to solve.
So I would say if we
were going to be honest,
we're going to do it from scale on one.
As in,
you just hello world yesterday to attend,
as in you go to a coding
a dark competition and
they give you 15 minutes to knock
out airbnbs UI using only HTML CSS.
Like you get first place I would say,
six or seven
when it comes to an entry level developer
because these are the fundamentals, right?
These are the things that are gonna
save you your entire career, right?
For HTML, CSS, JavaScript, these
are the things these are the big three
because you're on the way up
your this is your domain, right?
Just like in the military.
You don't want a person who's a four
when it comes to being a rifleman,
like doing their job around you, right.
That's where my you're laughing.
That's where my experience comes from,
right?
Like you know,
I you know you got to at least be 80%
to be around me because
lives are on the line.
So same thing you know, at I will
take that same rule that 80% knowing,
being competent enough to build things or
be able to quickly find
a solution build things.
That's important.
Or be able to expertly talk about
the things that you want to build.
So does that making sense chat?
>> No, your analogy of hello world being
one Coding up Airbnb with only HTML and
CSS in ten minutes and
you have to be a six or seven.
That's a great figure
to tell me a ballpark.
Now JavaScript, how good are they?
I mean, JavaScript gets deep.
I mean, there's a lot a big difference
between writing an object, or
an array, or a model, or making a, using
a snippet to create a react component,
and like really understanding
functional programming, and closures,
and concatenating, and
like how far down the rabbit hole?
Do you got to go?
>> My general rule of thumb when I tell my
veterans is when it comes to JavaScript
is there's no such thing as
being over prepared, right.
So that is because like you said,
Java's like JavaScript is our battlefield.
JavaScript is the fluid
constantly evolving,
highly opinionated different
from team in team area, right?
So that's our firefight is front ends,
right?
So when you're dealing with doing
about that there's no such thing as
being too prepared, you can really
put a number on it because it
is volatile the way is written
is different from team to team.
That's why they have style guides like
the Airbnb style guide if you're looking,
have you ever seen that?
You have style guides,
you have like functional programming,
object oriented programming,
you have all these things that you have,
that you have to at least be exposed to.
So don't focus on competency
focus on a core competency,
but don't focus on like as an entry level.
Then they're going to expect you
to have complete mastery, but
they will expect exposure they will expect
a hunger to know more interest, right?
And start where you're at.
You're a new programmer started ES 2015.
And then as you get comfortable with that,
you're able to build most of your things
are that go backwards compatible, right?
Because no one knows all the things,
like contrary to popular belief,
every programmer you're looking up to
Google something that you would not like
they'd be ashamed to tell you every day.
It was like six months ago, until I just
realized that if I just do link, Colon,
CSS, the style sheet pops up automatically
in my co-editor when it came to things.
I would brain for
how to do it all the time.
So everyone is always looking up things we
just get better at googling than others.
So don't pick yourself up over that.
It's just that as you get better, your
Google gets better and your ability to
find questions and answers gets better,
and your questions get better.
Just keep plugging away.
I always recommend coach challenges or
just talking to people.
That's how you know you build a thing.
And you converse as being
plugged into your community and
having people who are more advanced
in you on it, it actually helps.
I'm sure Minneapolis has a slack
that's dedicated just to JavaScript.
>> Looks like we have a question in chat.
How important are data structures and
algorithms to an entry
level job interview?
>> Data structures and
algorithms, it varies.
Data structures and algorithms comes
into play at the higher level position.
So if you're at a agency or startup, they
just wanna know if you can build things.
But if you are like, okay, Facebook and
Netflix, yeah, data structures,
algorithms can become super important
especially when it comes to the ideology
of big annotation and performance,
because billions of people use those and
there are certain things like autocomplete
when people are searching and
they want to make sure that that stuff and
you understand those tools.
But as an entry level developer,
depending on your background and
the job that you're looking at, it varies.
There are some jobs that have had that.
No, it was important.
There was some jobs where no one cared or
talked about it and
they're both fortune 500 companies.
So like I said, that varies.
For entry level dev though, it's
better to be overpaying underprepared.
There's a great course on front end
masters for data structures and
algorithms.
We're not going over that you would
you're thinking about is the interviewing
process.
Once you get to the end,
this is all about how do we get, you know,
even to the point where a technical person
is talking to us about data structures and
algorithms, right?
You haven't even gotten to that point yet.
So let's move on let's try to
stay focused and on task for
that because why we have to get
the interview before we start talking
about data structures and
algorithms right?